# KickstarterAnalysis
# Kickstarting with Excel

## Overview of Project
A general overview of this project is that we were given a very large amount of data about Kickstarter fundraising programs. These Kickstarters ranged across the variety of industries such as: film and video, food, games, journalism, music, photography, publishing, technology, and theater. It held the data that described the goals of the crowdfunding project, the amount of money pledged, what currency and country it was in, A general name and understanding of what the project was, what it was launched, when it’s fundraiser ended, whether it was a staff pic, how many back or is it hard, whether a spotlight on the website, and a variety of other data sets. Our understanding of the project was trying to narrow this data down into adjustable and focused format utilizing parent categories, time frames, and outcomes to visualize how successful projects were across various fundraising goal ranges and launch dates.

### Purpose
The current purpose of the project is to create a filterable data set amongst the parent categories in years of our Kickstarter program to visualize the various outcomes in our theater department of successful, failed, and canceled projects based on their launch date. Utilizing this data, we eventually created a secondary table to total the number and percentage of the total projects within the successful, failed, and cancel categories within the specific Kickstarter donation goal ranges. To do this, we utilized countifs functions and various pivot table functionalities to visualize our data as seen below. This analysis allows us to visualize how our projects are doing across the various sectors we were crowdfunding with on Kickstarter. We can also see what a proper goal range would be if we want to encourage the maximum amount of success with funding our projects and how many projects are being funded in general.

### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Launch Date
As we move onto the first analysis, our methodology was we utilized a reference to the entire table within our Kickstarter data set. We then broke that down into a pivot table that could be filtered based on the parent categories and specific years when that specific project was launched. To get more specific we utilized a month format in case you were trying to get specific to a certain year, and we split up the total amount of outcomes into columns in our pivot table labeled by whether they were successful, failed, or canceled. We then utilize this to create a comparable line chart for all of the projects over the entire lifespan of the Kickstarter data set, to visualize the total amount of theater outcomes based on their initial launch dates as visualized here: 

### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Goals
Moving on, we wanted to visualize what the outcomes were across the entire Kickstarter data set based on the amount of money the Kickstarter goal was that too. We utilized a COUNTIFS function to partition our dataset into groupings of about $5000 based on specific criteria. This data range from projects that were asking for less than $1,000 all the way up to a greater than $50,000 request from the community. We then took a sum of all of the projects within each goal set and utilize that to average the percentage of those projects within that goal set that were successful, failed, or canceled. Then pulling from this datasheet, we created a comparable line graph of percentage successful, percentage failed, and percentage canceled projects spread out over the various goal ranges we were trying to visualize what specific goal range typically saw the highest amount of success and failure over the entire datasheet as seen here:

### Challenges and Difficulties Encountered
Looking over the analysis of theater outcomes by launch date and outcomes based on goals, there were not very many challenges that I faced in this data set. The main problem I had was excel’s ability to make everything in terms of visualizing gets very finicky and difficult to deal with. Like looking at the outcomes based on goal line chart, it took me a long time to get the X-axis to be labeled appropriately. Rather than using the specific goal ranges, it refused to add the greater than 50,000 range and wanted to add the goal column label as it’s own specific data range. Through editing the data for the line chart a few times, I was able to resolve this issue without affecting any of my lines.

## Results

- What are two conclusions you can draw about the Outcomes based on Launch Date?
Looking over the results of the theater outcomes by launch day there are two conclusions I can pull from this. First, the Kickstarter program has had far more successes and failures or cancellations in the data set. Secondly, in May and June, we see our highest amount of successful outcomes across the datasheet. 

- What can you conclude about the Outcomes based on Goals?
Looking at the outcomes based on goals sheet, we can conclude that projects in the lower end of the goal spectrum, as well as the 40,000 to 44,999 dollar range, have an incredibly high rate of successful funding versus projects in mid goal range (within the 20,000-35,000) and greater than 50,000 range typically see a sharp increase in failures. As to be expected as the price/donation request amount increases the likelihood that you’re going to be able to match that goal with crowdfunding sharply decreases.

- What are some limitations of this dataset?
However, there are some major limitations of this data set. If you look at theater outcomes by launch date, we can’t understand if there’s any seasonality to donations to the theater program or if the projects just happen to be more interesting to donate to within the May and June months. In terms of the canceled a lot of the data is incredibly small and we don’t even have a data set for October at all. There are a few adjustments and marketing data decisions that I would like to understand about the project to understand why we see such a drastic increase in the late spring to early summer months in terms of successful theater outcomes. When we look at the outcomes based on goals tab, we see an upward trend amongst the amount of failed projects as the goal range increases other than an incredibly large outlier at 40,000 to 44,999. The line chart is relatively good at visualizing data that is relatively the same size across-the-board, however, if you look at the number of projects across the board it’s destined to create more outliers. One of the higher percentage success goal sets is the 5,000 to 9,999 range and that data range has 2,578 projects. That is more in total than almost the entire ready of the other goal data sets. The outlier at 40,000 to 44,999 has a percentage success rate of 63%, primarily because five projects were successful and there are only eight total projects represented in that goal range. Thus, percentage-wise, it has a comparable success rate to the 2,578 projects within the 5,000 range. Had I’ve been showing this to shareholders, it would be very easy for me to manipulate the data to look like there’s still a lot of community interest even though our Kickstarters are asking for more due to poor data visualization. Or worse, I could lose credibility because those viewing my chart could see the same if they review the data.

- What are some other possible tables and/or graphs that we could create?
- In terms of visualizing the data, I would like for the outcomes based on goals section to utilize a chart type that could do a better job of representing the total amount of successful projects versus percentage successful due to the wide variety of total projects that we have and each goal range. Perhaps use the line chart to visualize the number of successful, failed, and canceled projects and then use something like a pie chart for each date arrange the show a percentage of successful, failed, and canceled projects. The theater outcomes by launch date is a very interesting idea, but it’s sorted poorly by months. I would like to see the percentage reflected as well here through either a pie chart or something of the sort. You could also utilize a different filter on the years or months that are used to show the total amount of theater outcomes to visualize the project totals is a little differently. Because the current line chart looks like a seasonality chart of donations versus an explanation of how many successful theater outcomes there were. The x-axis implies that all of these projects were funded in a year although years is an active filter on the graph.
